This repository contains analyses of proteomics data for Liver Hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC).

- Proteomics data for LIHC was downloaded from NCI proteomics data commons (PDC), PDC Study ID: PDC000198, study by Gao et al 2019 (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2019.08.052).
- Analysis was aimed at recreating Figure 3.
- Figure 3A: Heatmap of consensus clustering of 1,274 proteins differentially expressed between tumor and adjacent non-tumor tissue  (SAM, FDR q < 0.05, fold change > 1.5). Rows = proteins; columns = tumors. Z-score scaled log2 relative abundances.  Samples grouped into three proteomic subgroups: S-Mb (metabolic),  S-Pf (proliferative), and S-Me (microenvironment dysregulated).
- Figure 3B: Kaplan–Meier overall survival curves comparing the three proteomic subgroups. Note: The notes in the excel file downloaded from NCI-PDC mentions that clinical data for 9 patients were lost and not available.
- Figure 3E & F: Heatmap of significantly differentially expressed proteins in tumors with or without thrombus (3E) and barplot of significantly enriched biological processes (with down regulated genes) in tumors with thrombus. The authors have 82 genes on the heatmap (FDR cut off used by authors is not clear as they mention different numbers in the figure legend and methods ) while I got 281 (FDR cutoff of 0.1). This difference can also be attributed to imputation methods used for imputing missing values (The authors used an older pamr version, I used impute.knn from impute package). The barplot for enriched GO terms (biological processes) encompasses pathways captured by the authors. Full list of enriched GO terms pathways is given presented in GO_BP_results.csv file.
- Figure S7 A: Heatmap of HCC relevant proteins expression across the proteome subgroups of tumors. Only proteome data shown
- Figure S7 B: Heatmap of clinically relevant HCC biomarker with a barplot showing log2FC changes. One of the genes on the figure from the paper, HSPA1B, is not present in the proteome data (It may be a typo for HSPA12B) and not inlcuded here. Also it was noted that there were some outliers with extreme values in the matrix for this set of proteins which pulled color scale. To make most of the data more visible, the Z scores were capped at 3, -3. LogFC barplot captures what was obersevd in paper except for a few genes such as EPCAM, GLUL but these were tiny differences. As mentioned earlier, it should be noted that a different imputation method was used in the paper.
- Figure S7 C: Heatmap of potential drug targets in HCC based on the proteomics data from the study. Relative expression intensisites for these target proteins within the proteome subgroups of tumors is also plotted. Script for how the authors got the list of potential drug targets is provided. 
